---
title: "Silt. A Prologue: Salt"
layout: post
date: 2020-11-04
headerImage: false
tag:
- SCUBA
- Silt
star: true
category: silt
author: gbaird
description: Silt Prologue
---

### Salt

####                              "

  Underwater, you drift like the dust that shrugs up from the duney waste of the Empty Quarter, your abbreviated form a drawn out riposte, suspended in the grip of the salted, shallow sea. Up from beneath you rages foul neritic dross, the whole billowing gout kicked up by your fin when you kicked off of the ocean floor. Your legs are swathed in muck and the tide of it will take you soon, all of you, your reaching hand and black eyes and the sapphiric water hanging above your rising darkness will all become unclear to me. You have become unclear to me.
  
  The boat that brought you here went quiet so that you could jump. Its motor drags through the glittering desert, through water so dense with salt that you can see the weird geometries of its passage before the rifts heal themselves, before they subside back into the ocean. The coarse pulse of your breathing buzzes in your throat and ears; there is no other sound. Moiling particles of earth and salt scour your naked hands. All the years you've spent letting the sea grind at your body like this have made you soft to the touch. Can you still feel it? Does it hurt you like it should? Perhaps it is the white noise cataract of your breath that drowns out such pedestrian feelings. Because now, all I can see in you is intent.  All I can see is you and the ponderous turn of the motes at your feet as they catch and shatter the morning light.
  
  You hated him then, didn't you?
  
  The way his body jerked in brute shock as it broke the skin of the ocean for the first time, the way his hair blinded him like seaweed, the clumsy clawing of his fingers that only succeeded in setting him adrift against the crystal bay’s sky. You hated him. I know you.     
  
  I know you. You felt the hilt of your dive knife in your hand and thought of how easy it would be to break the soft tubing that kept this graceless fool breathing, to hold him, struggling, just ten meters down. I know you. You would have watched the roof of the ocean flash as he struggled, both of you, and he would have blessed you as savior through the sun in his eyes and the salt in his lungs.    
  
  But you didn’t do that. Why not? No one would call it anything but mercy, an accident, an act of god. You take your life into your hands when you leap into something like the sea.     
  
  You play savior differently. You let him right himself, oversee his halting descent and his first uneasy breaths at your side. When the seal of his borrowed mask breaks and briny water rushes in to flood his vision and to seep, horrifying, into his nose, you let your dive knife click into its holster and show him how to clear his mask so that he can see again. You watch as he plays in the warm, bright bay; the skiff’s drifting shadow sends him from light into darkness with arresting volatility. Marek has not quite mastered his own buoyancy; he falls upwards, slowly, uncontrollably. Ill disguised terror forces his breath to shallow and speed, sending a surge of panicked bubbles up to cocoon his head. His oxygen tank runs low. You ascend together, and you do not roll your eyes at your coworker Cyril while your charge flounders at the skiff’s low gunwale. The two men are grinning as you climb into the boat and shed your SCUBA unit and you grin back, your teeth wolfish in the steady light.
  
  But then they look away, Cyril to pilot the boat and Marek to watch the water break at the prow, and you, looking out at the bleak expanse of the gulf before you, begin to wring out your dense black hair. As the salt dries on your brow you can feel your skin tighten. You won't turn around for the rest of the ride. Behind you, the city rises, its glass and steel just as blank as the sand and the sea at its feet.

  
